>> The insecurity of life, the
instability of life is so true
for each of us.
It's like any
single one of us can
check our cell phone messages
and listen to one message.
And by the time we hang up,
we have a different life.
My mother died when I was nine.
And then, my father disappeared.
By the time I went
to college, I had
lived in five different
family configurations.
I was just so deeply unhappy
and confused and frightened.
And that was all covered
over with this layer
of, as many people experience,
this kind of opaque silence.
Because no one ever talked
about what had happened.
When I was a
sophomore in college,
I had took an Asian
philosophy course.
And honestly, looking
back, it feels like it
was kind of happenstance.
I was on a Tuesday or something.
And I thought, oh,
that's convenient.
I'll do that course.
And it completely
changed my life.
It turned out to be
a course in Buddhism.
And the first thing I
heard in that course that
was just riveting and amazing
was the Buddha's very unafraid,
unashamed acknowledgment
of the suffering in life.
And so he was saying,
you're not alone.
You don't have to feel weird
or isolated or cut off.
This is a part of life.
I think it's a pretty
revolutionary act
to admit and acknowledge the
suffering and the potential
for suffering that we all share.
And it has, I think,
really for me brought me
to a different level of
understanding about compassion,
both compassion for myself
and compassion for others.
Compassion, the trembling
or the quivering
of the heart in response
to seeing someone's pain
or suffering.
We hear so many messages
about what we need
and what we should have, and
we should never make a mistake.
There's so many things
that we kind of take on.
I think it's very powerful, and
it's kind of a big adventure,
to say, well, you know what?
Let me really look.
Let me see for myself.
So I feel very empowered by that
possibility of introspection
and discernment and not
necessarily believing
all those messages.
I do have a daily practice.
That's really the bedrock of
not only my day, but really
of my life.
Because if I think
about the qualities
I try to bring into
my day of integrity
or presence or
listening or compassion,
I really find it's
centered there.
I often do loving
kind of practice
just walking down the
streets in New York City.
It's great fun.
I'll be silently
offering phrases
of loving kindness to myself
as I walk down the street.
May you be happy.
May you be peaceful.
Then, as people walk by,
I'll just include them.
Just kind of silently
saying, be happy.
May you be happy.
May you be peaceful.
May you be happy, and
may you be peaceful.
Something like that.